README.md, before:

# Symfony 5 REST API skeleton

Symfony 5 + FOSRestBundle + JSON Standard responses + working example

![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/demartis/symfony5-rest-api.svg)
![GitHub repo size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/demartis/symfony5-rest-api.svg)
![GitHub language count](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/demartis/symfony5-rest-api.svg)
![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/demartis/symfony5-rest-api)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/demartis/symfony5-rest-api)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fdemartis%2Fsymfony5-rest-api.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fdemartis%2Fsymfony5-rest-api?ref=badge_shield)


## Table of Contents
+ [About](#about)
+ [Getting Started](#getting_started)
+ [JTTP](#jttp)
+ [Contributing](#contributing)
+ [License](#license)



## About <a name = "about"></a>
Symfony 5 skeleton to build REST APIs, inclusive of:

- *FOSRestBundle* (friendsofsymfony/rest-bundle) to simplify the entire process
- *Hateoas Bundle* (willdurand/hateoas-bundle) that specifies relation types for Web links
- *Doctrine*


This project is compliant with:
- [Symfony Best Practices](https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/best_practices.html)
- [HATEOAS](https://restfulapi.net/hateoas/), [RFC5988 (web links)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5988), [JSON HAL Model](http://stateless.co/hal_specification.html)
- [JTTP](https://github.com/demartis/jttp)
- URIs versioning


## Getting Started <a name = "getting_started"></a>

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine 
for development and testing purposes. 

### Prerequisites

What things you need to install the software and how to install them.
- PHP 7.2.5+
- [composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/)
- [symfony](https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/setup.html)
- docker (optional)

### Installing

```bash
git clone https://github.com/demartis/symfony5-rest-api/
cd symfony5-rest-api
cp .env.dist .env
## edit .env if needed
composer install
symfony server:start
```
### Installing (alternative with Docker)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/demartis/symfony5-rest-api/
cd symfony5-rest-api
cp .env.dist .env
## edit .env if needed
docker-compose build
docker-compose up
```


### Running the example

#### Install database
```bash
php bin/console doctrine:database:create
php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate
```

#### Get with Curl

```bash
curl -H 'content-type: application/json' -v -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/books
curl -H 'content-type: application/json' -v -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/books/2 
```



## JTTP: Coherent output formats <a name = "jttp"></a>
[JTTP](https://github.com/demartis/jttp) is the default protocol 

General JTTP output format:

```json
{
    "status": "success|error",
    "code": "HTTP status code",
    "message": "HTTP status message",
    "data|error": {
        "your data": "data or error field only in case of success or error"
    }
}
```

Example - GET resource: GET /v1/books/1
```json
{
    "status": "success",
    "code": 200,
    "message": "OK",
    "data": {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "PHP & MySQL Novice to Ninja",
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "/v1/books/1"
            }
        }
    }
}

``` 


Example - GET collection: GET /v1/books
```json
{
    "status": "success",
    "code": 200,
    "message": "OK",
    "data": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "title": "PHP & MySQL Novice to Ninja",
            "_links": {
                "self": {
                    "href": "/v1/books/1"
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "id": 2,
            "title": "Head First PHP & MySQL",
            "pages": 812,
            "_links": {
                "self": {
                    "href": "/v1/books/2"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}

``` 
Example - POST resource: POST /v1/books

JSON (any other field will be ignored):
```json
{
    "data": {
        "title": "New Book about PHP",
        "pages": 123
    }
}

``` 
Response:
```json
{
    "status": "success",
    "code": 200,
    "message": "OK",
    "data": {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "New Book about PHP",
        "pages": 123,
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "/v1/books/12"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
Example - PUT resource: PUT /v1/books/1

JSON (any other field will be ignored):
```json
{
    "data": {
        "title": "Edit title",
        "pages": 1000
    }
}

``` 
Response:
```json
{
    "status": "success",
    "code": 200,
    "message": "OK",
    "data": {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "Edit title",
        "pages": 1000,
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "/v1/books/1"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Example - error: Resource not found: GET /v1/books/123123
```json
{
    "status": "error",
    "code": 404,
    "message": "Not Found",
    "error": {
        "details": "Resource 123123 not found"
    }
}
```


Example - error: Route not found: GET /wrongroute123
```json
{
    "status": "error",
    "code": 404,
    "message": "Not Found",
    "error": {
        "details": "No route found for \"GET /wrongroute123\""
    }
}
```

Example - 500 Internal Server Error
```json
{
    "status": "error",
    "code": 500,
    "message": "Internal Server Error",
    "error": {
        "details": "Notice: Undefined variable: view"
    }
}
```
Example - form error - POST /v1/books
```json
{
    "data": {
        "pages": 123
    }
}
```
Response:
```json
{
    "status": "error",
    "code": 400,
    "message": "Bad Request",
    "error": {
        "form": {
            "title": "This value should not be blank."
        }
    }
}
```



## Using it as skeleton <a name = "usage"></a>

Use Fork capability and edit at your own 


## Contributing <a name = "contributing"></a>

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/demartis/symfony5-rest-api/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Pull Request


## License <a name = "license"></a>

[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fdemartis%2Fsymfony5-rest-api.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fdemartis%2Fsymfony5-rest-api?ref=badge_large)

Commit message:

docs: php 7 warning branch message

README.md, after:

# Symfony 5 REST API skeleton

Symfony 5 + FOSRestBundle + JSON Standard responses + working example

![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/demartis/symfony5-rest-api.svg)
![GitHub repo size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/demartis/symfony5-rest-api.svg)
![GitHub language count](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/demartis/symfony5-rest-api.svg)
![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/demartis/symfony5-rest-api)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/demartis/symfony5-rest-api)
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fdemartis%2Fsymfony5-rest-api.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fdemartis%2Fsymfony5-rest-api?ref=badge_shield)

--------------------------------------

⚠️ PHP 8.x required. If your server is still running PHP 7.x switch to `php7` branch.

--------------------------------------

## Table of Contents
+ [About](#about)
+ [Getting Started](#getting_started)
+ [JTTP](#jttp)
+ [Contributing](#contributing)
+ [License](#license)



## About <a name = "about"></a>
Symfony 5 skeleton to build REST APIs, inclusive of:

- *FOSRestBundle* (friendsofsymfony/rest-bundle) to simplify the entire process
- *Hateoas Bundle* (willdurand/hateoas-bundle) that specifies relation types for Web links
- *Doctrine*


This project is compliant with:
- [Symfony Best Practices](https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/best_practices.html)
- [HATEOAS](https://restfulapi.net/hateoas/), [RFC5988 (web links)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5988), [JSON HAL Model](http://stateless.co/hal_specification.html)
- [JTTP](https://github.com/demartis/jttp)
- URIs versioning


## Getting Started <a name = "getting_started"></a>

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine 
for development and testing purposes. 

### Prerequisites

What things you need to install the software and how to install them.
- PHP 8.x. For PHP 7 (7.2.5+) use branch `php7`
- [composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/)
- [symfony](https://symfony.com/doc/5.4/setup.html)
- docker (optional)

### Installing

```bash
git clone https://github.com/demartis/symfony5-rest-api/
cd symfony5-rest-api
cp .env.dist .env
## edit .env if needed
composer install
symfony server:start
```
### Installing (alternative with Docker)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/demartis/symfony5-rest-api/
cd symfony5-rest-api
cp .env.dist .env
## edit .env if needed
docker-compose build
docker-compose up
```


### Running the example

#### Install database
```bash
php bin/console doctrine:database:create
php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate
```

#### Run local server with Symfony app
```bash
symfony server:start
```

#### Get with Curl

```bash
curl -H 'content-type: application/json' -v -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/books
curl -H 'content-type: application/json' -v -X GET http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/books/2 
```



## JTTP: Coherent output formats <a name = "jttp"></a>
[JTTP](https://github.com/demartis/jttp) is the default protocol 

General JTTP output format:

```json
{
    "status": "success|error",
    "code": "HTTP status code",
    "message": "HTTP status message",
    "data|error": {
        "your data": "data or error field only in case of success or error"
    }
}
```

Example - GET resource: GET /v1/books/1
```json
{
    "status": "success",
    "code": 200,
    "message": "OK",
    "data": {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "PHP & MySQL Novice to Ninja",
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "/v1/books/1"
            }
        }
    }
}

``` 


Example - GET collection: GET /v1/books
```json
{
    "status": "success",
    "code": 200,
    "message": "OK",
    "data": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "title": "PHP & MySQL Novice to Ninja",
            "_links": {
                "self": {
                    "href": "/v1/books/1"
                }
            }
        },
        {
            "id": 2,
            "title": "Head First PHP & MySQL",
            "pages": 812,
            "_links": {
                "self": {
                    "href": "/v1/books/2"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}

``` 
Example - POST resource: POST /v1/books

JSON (any other field will be ignored):
```json
{
    "data": {
        "title": "New Book about PHP",
        "pages": 123
    }
}

``` 
Response:
```json
{
    "status": "success",
    "code": 200,
    "message": "OK",
    "data": {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "New Book about PHP",
        "pages": 123,
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "/v1/books/12"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
Example - PUT resource: PUT /v1/books/1

JSON (any other field will be ignored):
```json
{
    "data": {
        "title": "Edit title",
        "pages": 1000
    }
}

``` 
Response:
```json
{
    "status": "success",
    "code": 200,
    "message": "OK",
    "data": {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "Edit title",
        "pages": 1000,
        "_links": {
            "self": {
                "href": "/v1/books/1"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Example - error: Resource not found: GET /v1/books/123123
```json
{
    "status": "error",
    "code": 404,
    "message": "Not Found",
    "error": {
        "details": "Resource 123123 not found"
    }
}
```


Example - error: Route not found: GET /wrongroute123
```json
{
    "status": "error",
    "code": 404,
    "message": "Not Found",
    "error": {
        "details": "No route found for \"GET /wrongroute123\""
    }
}
```

Example - 500 Internal Server Error
```json
{
    "status": "error",
    "code": 500,
    "message": "Internal Server Error",
    "error": {
        "details": "Notice: Undefined variable: view"
    }
}
```
Example - form error - POST /v1/books
```json
{
    "data": {
        "pages": 123
    }
}
```
Response:
```json
{
    "status": "error",
    "code": 400,
    "message": "Bad Request",
    "error": {
        "form": {
            "title": "This value should not be blank."
        }
    }
}
```



## Using it as skeleton <a name = "usage"></a>

Use Fork capability and edit at your own 


## Contributing <a name = "contributing"></a>

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/demartis/symfony5-rest-api/fork>)
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/fooBar`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some fooBar'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/fooBar`)
5. Create a new Pull Request


## License <a name = "license"></a>

[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fdemartis%2Fsymfony5-rest-api.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fdemartis%2Fsymfony5-rest-api?ref=badge_large)
